WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Good evening.
I'm William Brangham.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Congress reaches
a deal to keep the government's
lights on
through September -- a look at
the first bipartisan
agreement of the Trump
administration.
Then, we begin our series on the
brutal civil
war in South Sudan, how ethnic
cleansing and
government corruption ravaged
the world's
youngest nation.
JANE FERGUSON: Civilians are
fleeing towns
and cities across South Sudan
because of repeated
attacks, and they're just
turning into ghost
towns.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And inside the
popular photo-sharing
app Instagram.
We explore how the young tech
company has
taken the world by storm.
KEVIN SYSTROM, Co-Founder,
Instagram: You
would post an image, and anyone
anywhere in
the world could see that image,
and understand
what you were trying to say
without speaking
your language.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In the art of
the latest
deal to come out of Capitol
Hill, a number
of President Trump's top
priorities were cast
aside to get enough Democratic
votes on board.
Lisa Desjardins reports.
LISA DESJARDINS: The massive
trillion-dollar-plus
spending deal keeps government
funded through
the fall and gives this Congress
its first
bipartisan success.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: These
are important priorities for
Congress and
for the president.
They reflect a lot of hard work.
They promise to positively and
meaningfully
impact the lives of the men and
women we represent.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: And,
at the end of the day, this is
an agreement
that reflects our basic
principles, something
both Democrats and Republicans
can support.
LISA DESJARDINS: President Trump
told Bloomberg
News he's -- quote -- "very
happy" with the
bill.
What's in it?
First, what was a sticking
point, security.
In the end, the Pentagon got a
healthy boost
of some $20 billion.
And Immigration and Customs
Enforcement will
see an increase of 8 percent,
much of that
for increased detention beds.
The bill also funds 10 new
immigration judges.
But it provides nothing for a
President Trump
priority, the border wall.
Despite that loss, Vice
President Mike Pence,
speaking on CBS, called the deal
a bipartisan
win.
MIKE PENCE, Vice President of
the United States:
It'll avert a government
shutdown, but more
important than that, there's
going to be a
significant increase in military
spending.
Our armed forces have been
hollowed out in
recent years by budget cuts.
LISA DESJARDINS: Outside of
defense, and in
contrast to President Trump's
proposals, few
agencies face significant cuts.
Some, like the National
Institutes of Health,
will get a big lift, $2 billion.
Plus, there is increased funding
to help Puerto
Rico's financial crisis, to fund
Pell Grants
year-round, expand a mental
health office
and to fight opioid addiction.
Also in the billion, $2 billion
to extend,
permanently, health benefits for
a large group
of coal miners and their
families.
House Speaker Paul Ryan said the
bill makes
America -- quote -- "stronger
and safer."
But contrast that with
Republican Jim Jordan
of Ohio of the conservative
Freedom Caucus.
REP.
JIM JORDAN (R), Ohio: I think
you're going
to see a lot of conservatives be
against this
plan this week.
Why did we last fall do a
short-term spending
bill, if we weren't going to
fight for the
things we told voters we were
going to fight
for?
LISA DESJARDINS: White House
spokesman Sean
Spicer acknowledged Republicans
needed Democratic
votes.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
This is something that required
60 votes in
the Senate.
We couldn't have our entire way
on this, but
we're five months away from
having a 2018
budget, and I think the
president's priorities
will be reflected much more in
that.
LISA DESJARDINS: With the latest
stopgap funding
measure set to expire Friday,
the legislation
could see a vote in Congress as
early as tomorrow.
Two very hot topics, Planned
Parenthood and
sanctuary cities, as they are
called, were
ignored in this bill.
Both keep their current funding
for now, but
expect those fights to heat up
again likely
as part of other bills, William.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Lisa,the
Democrats are claiming
this is a pretty big victory for
them, the
GOP, as we saw in your piece, a
little bit
less so.
How do you see this shaking out?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, today,
the e-mails
came out first from the
Democrats overnight.
And it took a little bit longer
to hear from
the Republicans.
But let's look at -- what their
broad priorities,
what they did here.
Republicans made one big
trade-off.
They wanted defense spending to
go up.
They wanted some more border
security spending,
but not the border wall.
For that, they trade off a slew
of issues
that were important to
Democrats, as we said,
Puerto Rico.
But there is a whole other range
of them,
including, for example, the
National Endowment
for the Arts, which got a slight
increase
in this as well.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In the past,
we have had
shutdowns, or we came very,
very, very close
to having a shutdown.
This wasn't the case in this.
The GOP seemed to think that
they were just
going to get blamed if the
government shut
down, and that is why they
seemed to have
backed off a little bit?
LISA DESJARDINS: I think that is
exactly right,
because there were Republicans
talking to
us privately last week trying to
get reporters
in the framework of, oh,
Democrats will be
blamed if this shutdown happens.
But the very fact that they were
bringing
that up, William, you knew that
they were
worried that they would catch
the blame.
Part of that is because they
were blamed the
last time that happened, because
they shut
down government over the
Affordable Care Act
and trying to end that.
But I think there's also an
issue with Republicans
that they are concerned that
some of the issues
they feel the most strongest
about do not
yet have majority of approval in
polling,
like Planned Parenthood.
Most Americans want that to
continue to be
funded.
So if they are willing to shut
down government
over something that is
unpopular, they think
that will go blow up against
them.
So they didn't take those
stances in this
bill.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You touched on
some of the
very broad things that were
being cut or being
supported.
But there are some very
specific, real people
that are targeted here or
benefit here.
Tell us about those people.
LISA DESJARDINS: I get to use
more graphics.
I'm excited.
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: Let's talk
about some of
the winners here that I found
poring through
the bill that you might not hear
about otherwise.
The top of the list are military
personal.
They will receive a 2.1 percent
pay raise.
That's something they have been
fighting for.
That is not an enormous pay
raise, but it
more than they had been getting,
1.6 percent,
otherwise.
Now, the cities of New York and
Palm Beach,
they have a lot of residents in
common, I
think often, in winner and
summer.
One of those, of course, is
President Trump.
And he has been costing millions
of dollars
to those two cities to try and
protect him
and protect their residents as
he comes.
They will receive some $68
million to help
pay for that added protection.
They are the two largest
recipients of that
money.
And Amtrak, people who travel up
and down
the East Coast in particular,
Amtrak is getting
a big funding boost.
Now, not everyone did all that
well.
A couple of things that I
noticed that did
get some cuts, you might not
hear about, the
Coast Guard.
The U.S. Coast Guard will not be
getting as
big of a pay raise as the rest
of the military,
and they're also getting a cut.
And the U.N., listen to this,
William.
The U.N. will see some $640
million less from
the United States in this bill
that was passed
than last year.
That is a lot of money.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Indeed, it is.
But from the outside, as an
observer, this
certainly seemed like a
relatively civil process,
with not the usual sort of
fighting and recriminations.
Is it too much to read into
this, or do you
think this actually could be a
change in the
tone on Capitol Hill?
LISA DESJARDINS: Imagine that.
I don't think so, actually.
I noticed, when senators and
congressmen came
back from their Easter recess,
that there
seemed to be less of a personal
sense of animosity
that we had had up until that
point, and that
there had been more of a sense
of the political.
So, I guess to paraphrase "The
Godfather,"
it's not personal, it's
political.
It had been personal.
I think that's good for
civility, that's good
for conversation.
But we still have a very large
political problem,
especially for Republicans.
They still don't have all the
votes coalescing
to get across the bills that
they want.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Speaking of
those, quickly,
the health care bill, what is
the likelihood
we're going to see something
this week?
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes, I think
you will talk
to Amy and Tam coming up.
I would like to hear what they
say.
But I think right now, unlikely,
for now.
They do not have the votes.
I think, we look ahead, a lot of
these things,
they are going to kick down the
can.
I also understand that the White
House has
been saying tonight that they
will bring the
border wall back up again later
this summer.
So I think we're going to be
regurgitating
all of these issues again.
Republicans will have more and
more chances
to get their votes.
We will see if they do.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, the
"NewsHour"'s
Lisa Desjardins, thank you so
much.
In the day's other news:
Thousands of demonstrators
across the country took to the
streets in
massive May Day events, mostly
protesting
President Trump's policies.
May 1 is ®MDNM /International
Workers Day,
and has become a rallying point
for immigration
advocates and labor unions.
Strikes and marches were
organized in more
than 200 cities.
One protest in New York City
denounced the
president's views on
immigration.
MAN: There is fear and there is
anxiety.
But what gives me hope and gives
me resilience
moving forward is that the
community is resisting
and saying this is not the way
that we should
operate in the United States and
we have got
to stop.
And we are going to push back.
And that's what I am excited
today.
That's why we're here marching
and being loud
and visible.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: May Day
demonstrations also
took place around the world.
In France, protests grew violent
when activists
interrupted a peaceful union
march in Paris
by throwing Molotov cocktails at
police officers.
They responded with tear gas and
batons.
In the U.S., parts of the South
and Midwest
braced for more severe weather
today.
This comes on the heels of a
line of powerful
weekend storms that killed at
least 16 people.
That weather system spawned
tornadoes and
heavy flooding, and inflicted
widespread damage.
Deaths were reported across five
states: Texas,
Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi,
and Tennessee.
North Korea said it is ramping
up its nuclear
arsenal in the face of growing
U.S. and international
pressure.
This comes two days after North
Korea conducted
another ballistic missile test,
which failed.
State television announced the
new threat
today, and hinted at more tests
to come.
MAN (through translator): Now
that the U.S.
is kicking up a racket overall
for sanctions
and pressure against us, we will
speed up
at the maximum pace to bolster
our nuclear
deterrence.
It will be taken in consecutive
and successive
ways at any moment and any place
decided by
our supreme leadership.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: President
Trump told Bloomberg
news he's open to meeting with
North Korean
leader Kim Jong-un, if the
circumstances were
right.
He said: "If it would be
appropriate for me
to meet with him, I would
absolutely.
I would be honored to do it."
Meanwhile, President Trump's
reelection campaign
unveiled new ads today, hailing
accomplishments
of his first 100 days.
The $1.5 million TV and online
ad campaign
touts achievements like the
confirmation of
Supreme Court Justice Neil
Gorsuch, tax cuts,
and the approval of the Keystone
XL pipeline.
It doesn't mention the failed
attempt to repeal
Obamacare or the president's
controversial
travel ban.
FOX News co-president Bill Shine
has resigned
amid turmoil at the network.
Shine has worked for FOX since
1996.
He was tapped as co-president
after CEO Roger
Ailes was ousted last summer,
following a
sexual harassment scandal.
Shine was named in at least four
lawsuits
or allegations involving alleged
sexual harassment
or racial discrimination.
His departure comes just two
weeks after anchor
Bill O'Reilly also left the
network.
The Trump administration today
rolled back
the nutrition standards for
federally funded
school lunches that were put in
place under
President Obama.
That means schools can now delay
implementing
stricter requirements on the
amount of sodium
and whole grains in the food
they serve.
Agriculture Secretary Sonny
Perdue signed
the order at a school in
Virginia, after eating
lunch with elementary school
students.
The Supreme Court ruled today
that cities
can sue banks for discrimination
under the
Fair Housing Act.
But they must prove a direct
connection between
predatory lending and the city's
loss of revenue.
The case involved a lawsuit
filed by Miami
against Bank of America and
Wells Fargo, which
accused them of targeting
minority borrowers
with risky, more expensive
loans.
And stocks were mixed on Wall
Street today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 27 points
to close at 20913.
The Nasdaq rose 44 points, and
the S&P 500
added four points.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Trump's controversial
White House invitation to the
Philippines'
strongman president; inside the
civil war
ravaging the world's newest
country; from
elementary to high school, an
investigation
into thousands of sexual
assaults; and much
more.
Now: the president's weekend
phone call with
the president of the Philippines
and the uproar
that has ensued.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
There's a lot that the president
talks to
these leaders in private about.
Privately talking about them,
building a relationship
can achieve results.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The White
House defended
what it said was a very friendly
phone call.
On the other end of that call,
the president
of the Philippines, Rodrigo
Duterte, a man
who's presided over a bloody
anti-drug crackdown
that's killed thousands of
people in his country.
Also during Saturday's
conversation was an
apparent surprise invitation
from President
Trump to Duterte to visit him in
person at
the White House.
That prompted an outcry from
human rights
advocates, including the United
Nations' human
rights commissioner.
ZEID BIN RA'AD ZEID AL-HUSSEIN,
United Nations
High Commissioner for Human
Rights: My hope
is that the president of the
United States
will convey this deep sense of
alarm about
the apparent shirking of the
obligations under
law.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The scale of
the killing
in the Philippines is enormous.
Human Rights Watch found that
over 7,000 people
were killed in Duterte's first
six months
in office.
Duterte has been defiant, and
was roundly
condemned for comments like this
last fall:
RODRIGO DUTERTE, Philippine
President: Hitler
massacred three million Jews.
Now, there is three million,
what is it, three
million drug addicts, there are.
I would be happy to slaughter
them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: White House
officials said
the overture part of a wider
effort to rally
Asian leaders against North
Korea and its
missile program.
Speaking to a summit of South
Asian nations
just before the phone call with
President
Trump, Duterte appealed to the
U.S. to show
restraint.
RODRIGO DUTERTE: I will say
just, Mr. President,
please see to it that there is
no war, because
my region will suffer immensely.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Poor relations
with the
Obama White House led Duterte to
threaten
a pivot to warmer relations with
China.
The Philippines and China
continue to dispute
territory in the South China
Sea, but, today,
Duterte welcomed a Chinese naval
fleet to
his country's shores.
As for taking up President
Trump's invitation
to the White House, Duterte
played coy, saying
he was -- quote -- "tied up"
with a full schedule.
For more on President Trump's
invitation to
President Duterte, as well as
his relationships
with other authoritarian
leaders, we turn
to David Kramer.
He served as assistant secretary
of state
for human rights during the
George W. Bush
administration, and is now with
the McCain
Institute for International
Leadership at
Arizona State University.
Welcome.
DAVID KRAMER, Former U.S.
Assistant Secretary
of State: Thanks.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Your first
reaction to the
invitation to President Duterte?
DAVID KRAMER: I think it's one
thing for the
president to have a phone call
with President
Duterte.
It needs to be done, given the
tensions in
Asia, the problems with North
Korea, the challenges
with China.
It is a different matter,
though, to embrace
Duterte and to invite him here
to Washington
and to visit the White House.
I think that's going much too
far, given the
gross human rights abuses that
are occurring
in the Philippines, with
estimates of some
7,000 people killed since
Duterte became president
in June, a number of victims of
extrajudicial
killings.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We touched a
little bit
of this in the setup.
How much do you hold Duterte
responsible for
those killings?
DAVID KRAMER: He certainly is
not discouraging
them.
In fact, he is encouraging them.
He has taken credit for some
killings, including
when he was mayor before
becoming president.
And he is creating an
environment in which
this kind of action is being
encouraged, not
just condoned.
So, I think Duterte does deserve
a lot of
responsibility.
It is popular in certain
segments, in part
because a lot of the people
being killed come
from poor, impoverished areas,
and they don't
have strong advocates speaking
out for them.
But there is this concern that
it could spin
out of control and create all
sorts of problems.
And it already has.
I mean, 7,000, if that number is
right, is
an extraordinary number in such
a short period
of time.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Apparently,
President Trump
didn't clear this with the State
Department
before issuing this invitation.
Is that unusual?
DAVID KRAMER: Well, the
president of the United
States, whether it's Donald
Trump, Barack
Obama, George Bush, can
basically do what
he wants when it comes to
invitations to the
White House.
But it is a little unusual that
this kind
of invitation wouldn't have been
prepared
ahead of time as part of his
talking points.
The reports indicate that it
came as a surprise,
not only to the State
Department, but to some
people on the National Security
Council and
the White House as well.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
of this invitation
as an endorsement?
You have described this as an
open-arms embrace
of sorts.
Is the president endorsing this
behavior by
bringing this man seemingly with
open arms?
DAVID KRAMER: Well, in the
statement, there
didn't appear to be any
reference to human
rights concerns in the
Philippines.
And by inviting a leader to the
White House
or to the United States to visit
with his
American counterpart, it does
send a signal
that the president is not
attaching much importance
to human rights concerns.
We have seen the embrace of
President Sisi
from Egypt, the phone call to
President Erdogan
after the very controversial
referendum in
Turkey.
We have seen the admiration
voiced by candidate
Trump and President Trump toward
Vladimir
Putin.
So, there does seem to be this
affinity for
strongmen around the world,
without an accompanying
expression of concern about the
human rights
abuses that are occurring in
these countries.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You were in
the State Department.
You know that presidents often
have to deal
with unsavory characters and
sometimes that
there is a strategic goal in
putting your
arm around someone who you may
personally
feel is a reprehensible human
being.
Couldn't there be a strategic
interest?
I mean, couldn't this really
just be about
North Korea?
DAVID KRAMER: Well, for sure.
Those of us in the human rights
community
have never argued that human
rights should
drown out other interests the
United States
has.
We have energy, economic
interests with countries,
security interests, but we also
have democracy,
human rights interests with
countries.
And our argument is that that
last set of
interests shouldn't be
shortchanged in the
pursuit of these other
interests.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's say
President Trump
did speak out and somehow
condemned what Duterte
has been doing or been involved
in.
Isn't there a risk, given
Duterte's personality,
that we could jeopardize the
Philippines as
an ally, who are a very crucial
ally to us?
Isn't there a risk that he could
sully that
relationship?
DAVID KRAMER: There is a risk.
And we saw this last year when
President Obama
indicated he was going to raise
human rights
issues if he had met with
Duterte, and Duterte
responded with an epithet toward
the president,
and basically said he was going
to turn to
China and Russia.
I think that's a little more
bluff, even though
today there were Chinese naval
vessels in
a port in the Philippines that
Duterte himself
visited.
But, at the end of the day, the
Philippines-American
relationship is longstanding.
We have very strong ties between
our peoples,
our countries and our
governments.
And I think it's important to
use those ties
as leverage to insist and press
for better
treatment of the people of the
Philippines.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Last quick
question.
President Trump today also said
that he would
meet with the North Korean
leader.
How does that sit with you?
DAVID KRAMER: I would hope that
that would
be a last resort after
everything else is
tried at lower levels.
Granting an audience to the
worst abuser of
human rights, the North Korean
leader, President
Kim, is something I would hope
we don't see
any time soon.
The problem is, obviously, not
just nuclear
concerns, nuclear security, but
also the treatment
of North Korean people by its
leader.
That is a huge problem.
And I hope that would also not
get swept under
the rug.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
David Kramer
of the McCain Institute, thank
you very much.
DAVID KRAMER: Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The world's
youngest country
is tearing itself apart.
South Sudan was founded in 2011,
but, two
years later, forces allied to
the president
and vice president began
fighting each other.
That civil war has now led to
the near collapse
of the country.
In partnership with the Pulitzer
Center on
Crisis Reporting, special
correspondent Jane
Ferguson begins a series of
three reports.
Tonight is a look at this brutal
war and its
tribal roots.
And a warning: Some images and
stories in
this report are disturbing.
JANE FERGUSON: This was once a
busy market
town.
Villagers from the countryside
would come
to Leer to trade goods and catch
up on news.
Now there is no one.
All the people have fled into
the bush, hiding
from violent raids by government
soldiers.
We found some of them a few
miles away in
rebel-held land.
They had crept out of hiding to
get help from
aid agencies.
Without it, they will starve.
Their stories of what they have
endured are
horrifying.
MAN (through translator): The
government is
killing men, women and children,
and sometimes
they even cook the dead bodies
and force us
to eat them.
My 5-year-old daughter was
slaughtered, and
they made me eat her body.
JANE FERGUSON: Tales of such
brutality are
common in South Sudan's civil
war.
A fallout between president
Salva Kiir and
his vice president, Riek Machar,
began in
2013, tearing the country along
tribal lines.
Kiir is from the Dinka tribe,
Machar from
the rival Nuer tribe.
Fighting between the two sides
soon involved
other subtribes.
Battles broke out across the
country.
Murderous raids on civilian
communities are
a favored tactic, according to
Jonathan Pedneault
of Human Rights Watch.
JONATHAN PEDNEAULT, Human Rights
Watch: Both
opposition and government
fighters see various
specific ethnic groups as being
supportive
of their -- either of their
opponents.
And in order to decrease the
military capacities
of their opponents, they decide
to target
civilians, because, without
civilians, those
fighters won't have a place to
stay, they
won't receive food, they won't
receive popular
support.
So, the aim by targeting
civilians is, in
effect, to cut the grass under
the feet of
those fighters.
JANE FERGUSON: This is what
ethnic cleansing
looks like.
Entire populations of specific
tribes are
being forced out of areas in
South Sudan.
Malakal town was a mixture of
tribes.
Government and opposition forces
have been
fighting over it throughout the
war, both
committing atrocities.
Each time the town changed
hands, civilians
of a specific tribe were
targeted.
It's now controlled by Dinka
government soldiers.
Entire neighborhoods, where the
Nuer and other
tribes at risk used to live, lay
silent and
empty, the grass reclaiming
streets that used
to be home for so many.
We are not allowed to get out
and film in
the town center.
There's lots of police and army
around, but
what there aren't are civilians
who live here.
This was once South Sudan's
second biggest
city.
And the streets and
neighborhoods are completely
abandoned now.
Civilians are fleeing towns and
cities across
South Sudan because of repeated
attacks.
And they're just turning into
ghost towns.
They ran to this camp just
outside the town.
It is a dusty, miserable place,
where sewage
runs between shacks and
desperately poor survivors
of the violence try to go on
living.
Elizabeth is one of them.
A single mother of six, she
sells cups of
tea in the camp to earn some
money.
But the memory of what happened
in the town
is always with her.
ELIZABETH SHOL ROUT, South Sudan
(through
translator): I saw many people
killed, including
my brother.
They called my brother to come
out of the
house and shot him in front of
me.
JANE FERGUSON: The only thing
standing between
her and the government soldiers
are U.N. peacekeeping
soldiers.
They guard this camp and others
like it across
South Sudan, trying to stop more
massacres.
The U.N. said in December in a
statement South
Sudan is on the brink of all-out
genocide,
similar to what happened in
Rwanda in 1994.
And yet its peacekeepers seem
unwilling or
unable to stop it.
Last year, government soldiers
forced their
way into the camp, and over
several days murdered
more than 25 people and injured
and raped
many others.
Elizabeth shows us where they
came in.
She remains bitter that the U.N.
soldiers
didn't stop them.
ELIZABETH (through translator):
They did nothing.
When they saw the soldiers cut
the fence and
come into the camp, they just
opened the gate
to allow the people to escape.
JANE FERGUSON: There are over
13,000 U.N.
peacekeeping soldiers in South
Sudan.
More than 200,000 civilians have
fled to their
bases across the country when
targeted by
the violence, forcing the U.N.
to create guarded
camps in order to protect the
people.
Despite having authority to use
force if needed
to stop attacks against
civilians, the peacekeepers
have come under criticism for
not doing so
when attacks have happened in
front of them.
MOUSTAPHA SOUMARE, United
Nations: Peacekeeping,
and that's all it is.
It's really you keep peace.
So, normally, the people who
come in peacekeeping,
the troops and so on, are really
prepared
in the spirit of peacekeeping,
not really
entering into direct fight.
JANE FERGUSON: Despite this, he
says the U.N.
have now pushed their forces to
improve.
MOUSTAPHA SOUMARE: They have
been instructed
that, if you see something like
that, you
make a warning shot.
If people are -- really not
responded, you
can actually use your firearm on
that.
JANE FERGUSON: South Sudan is
the world's
youngest nation, and the
international community
played a major part in its
creation.
After decades of devastating
civil war with
the North, South Sudan finally
won its independence
with a referendum in 2011.
American church groups and
politicians had
campaigned for the peaceful
birth of the nation
for years.
But it was South Sudanese
fighters, community
leaders and advocates who
sacrificed so much
to see this country find its
freedom.
One of them was Alfred Taban.
A veteran journalist and
newspaper editor,
he was jailed and tortured
repeatedly for
years in the northern capital of
Khartoum
for calling for independence.
ALFRED TABAN, Journalist: Well,
I knew we
were going to succeed.
I knew we had not -- we had not
done anything
bad.
We were struggling for our
rights as human
beings.
And that's what led me to
survive.
I knew we will succeed.
JANE FERGUSON: After sacrificing
so much for
his country, its rapid descent
into civil
war has broken his heart.
ALFRED TABAN: The killing of one
another started,
the Nuers being killed, the
Dinkas being killed
and other tribes, then I knew
things had really
gone bad.
Then I knew that partly we -- or
they themselves,
they were not only struggling
for the people,
but they were struggling for
themselves to
lead or to rule.
I became very, very
disappointed.
JANE FERGUSON: In frustration,
he wrote a
column in the newspaper he runs
calling for
the leaders of both sides in
this war to step
down.
Shortly after, the government he
sacrificed
his freedom for jailed him for
nearly two
weeks.
ALFRED TABAN: They were not
struggling for
their people.
They were struggling for
themselves.
And this is why really the
struggle of the
people of South Sudan has been
hijacked from
the very beginning.
It has become a struggle for
position and
wealth, not a struggle for the
betterment
of the lives of the people of
South Sudan.
JANE FERGUSON: Yet neither side
in this war
is backing down.
It is spiraling into a frenzy of
ethnic-driven
murder and revenge.
The dream of a peaceful South
Sudan is dying
with its people.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Jane
Ferguson
in Juba, South Sudan.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For the
record, the South
Sudanese information minister
canceled an
interview with Jane Ferguson to
respond to
charges against the government.
Tomorrow, Jane reports on the
famine that
the war has caused.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
weekend chockful
of politics kicks off a busy
week on Capitol
Hill -- our Politics Monday duo
breaks it
all down; and a
behind-the-scenes look at
one of the world's fastest
growing social
media networks.
But first: A new investigative
report finds
a disturbing pattern.
Sexual abuse of students by
other students
happens more frequently in
schools than reported,
and the consequences for the
offenders vary
considerably.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: A hidden horror
educators have
long been warned not to ignore
-- that's the
description of sexual abuse in
schools by
the Associated Press, which
published its
story today.
AP Reporters found that students
were seven
times more likely than adults to
sexually
assault another student.
During a four-year period, the
AP tallied
at least 17,000 cases around the
country.
These included many cases that
were treated
as bullying or hazing instead.
Emily Schmall is a member of the
AP team.
She joins me now from Dallas.
Emily, thanks for joining us.
One key point you're making is
that this happens
more often than we know, right?
Is it possible to say how
pervasive it is?
EMILY SCHMALL, Associated Press:
Yes, it's
absolutely true.
It happens far more often, I
think, than people
realize.
To say exactly how pervasive it
is, it's difficult
though, because, just like rape
and sexual
assault perpetrated in other
places, rape
and sexual assault in schools is
definitely
under-reported.
So, while we have been able to
tally about
17,000 incidents over the four
years, experts
have told us it's just the tip
of the iceberg.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, let's
establish what we
are talking about.
Really, we're going beyond
bullying, beyond
hazing.
Tell us what you are looking at
exactly.
EMILY SCHMALL: Yes.
So, we were very, very
deliberate in what
we counted.
And we are looking at sexual
assault as defined
by the Justice Department, which
means forced
intercourse or sodomy, forced
oral sex, the
most severe forms of sexual
assault.
We deliberately didn't include
categories
like sexual harassment or
bullying, even though,
as you noted, sometimes, sex
assaults are
reported as these things.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, so if you
look at the
rules governing schools, I
gather that it
really varies from state to
state in terms
of how much this is tracked and
what kind
of actions are taken.
EMILY SCHMALL: Yes, and even
sometimes within
school districts.
There's no federal requirement
that says schools
have to track student-on-student
sex assault,
even though for a long time
schools have been
tracking things like free and
reduced lunch,
guns, drugs on school property.
This is just something that they
are not obligated
to track.
So, various states do collect
some sort of
information, but it's
inconsistent state to
state.
And a lot of times, school
districts sort
of have the discretion over how
they report
these things.
Therefore, in a case -- there
were plenty
of cases we found where they
have led to a
criminal charge, but the act it
itself was
categorized and reported to the
state as bullying
or as sexual harassment or as a
lesser form
of sex offense.
JEFFREY BROWN: You referred to
this a little
bit earlier, Emily.
Just in terms of why these cases
float so
much under the radar, why we
know so little,
spell that out a little bit.
EMILY SCHMALL: Yes, so the
experts we spoke
to said there's just a real
reluctance on
the part of not only school
administrators,
but parents as well, to
acknowledge this for
what it is.
They have a hard time
recognizing that kids
at such a young age can be
perpetrators or
be victimized in this way.
So, that's part of it.
The other part is that a lot of
schools have
said that they aren't really
aware of what
they are supposed to do when an
allegation
of sexual assault between
students surfaces.
And then, lastly, some experts
have actually
said that schools are just
looking after their
public image more than they are
the victims.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, of course,
in the wider
public, it's just something hard
for all of
us to want to even discuss, I
assume.
EMILY SCHMALL: I think so.
I mean, I think there's still
really a stigma
about sexual violence, not only
in the context
of K-12 schools, but in our
country at large.
So it's even more intense at the
younger school
level.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, so what can
or should
be done?
What -- for parents, for
educators?
What are the experts telling
you?
EMILY SCHMALL: Well, the experts
are saying
that, you know, there is a real
reluctance
among, not only school
administrators, but
parents as well, to acknowledge,
even, that
this is happening and that kids
of such a
young age are perpetrating these
kinds of
offenses.
So the experts say that it needs
to be recognized
for what it is.
There are a lot of people
working in the space
of how we solve this, how we
empower other
kids to report it.
It is actually something that
we're going
to be taking on later on in the
series.
Our stories are running every
Monday in May.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Emily
Schmall of
the AP, thank you very much.
EMILY SCHMALL: Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Turning back
now to the
compromise reached in Congress
to avoid a
government shutdown, the effort
to pass a
health care replacement, and the
president's
contentious relationship with
the press, it's
time for Politics Monday, with
Tamara Keith
of NPR and Amy Walter of The
Cook Political
Report.
Welcome to you both.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Good
to be here.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Amy, I would
like to start
with you.
So, government didn't get shut
down.
That's a good thing, right?
What happened?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Yes,
great, they kept government
functioning.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: The most basic thing
that Congress
can do is to keep the lights on.
So, yes, this is a success, but
it also is
not the hardest thing that they
need to do.
We have big, difficult pieces of
legislation
that we have been hearing about.
Obviously, one of those pieces
of legislation,
health care, has already been
pulled.
There's talk that it may be
reintroduced this
week or later on.
But the fact that they were able
to get one
basic piece of legislating done,
which, by
the way, is supposed to be the
easiest, I
don't think means that we're
going to suddenly
see the floodgates open and now
everything
is going to...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Kumbaya.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: Right, everybody is
going to work
together and get the big stuff
done.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Tam, do you
think that is
right?
Have we just lowered the bar so
low that,
when they do basic things like
cross kids
across the sidewalk to school,
that is a huge
victory?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Yes,
and if you liked this movie,
just wait.
The sequel comes in September.
AMY WALTER: Right.
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: Because this was
just basically
finishing out of the year.
The year ends at the end of
September.
And what the Trump
administration is saying
is, you know, we didn't try that
hard to get
what we wanted this time around
because it
was already -- the process was
under way.
It was a bipartisan effort.
But we're going to really fight
for what we
want next time around.
So, it becomes potentially a
bigger battle
in September, where you have a
president who
needs to prove that he can get
some of the
things that he wants.
And Democrats aren't going to be
any more
willing to roll over than they
were this time
around.
This -- it is a fascinating
thing.
Basically, Democrats and
Republicans in Congress
have been fighting over how to
fund the government,
and not very successfully
fighting about it,
for years and years and years
and years.
And then you just -- you know,
we're on like
the eighth or ninth sequel.
It's like "The Fast and the
Furious."
(LAUGHTER)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
this is just...
AMY WALTER: But without any of
the cool...
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Right, no car
crashes, no
Vin Diesel.
AMY WALTER: No Vin Diesel.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Was this just
a case where
the GOP was scared that they
were going to
get the blame?
AMY WALTER: Yes, if you control
the government,
you get all the blame, and you
get the credit.
And the bottom line is, we have
seen now in
these past 100 days that,
despite the fact
that Republicans control all
three levers
of government, getting stuff
done isn't as
easy as they thought it was.
The president himself has said,
boy, this
is a little bit harder doing
this governing
thing that I thought.
And he is rightly pointing to
the fact that
Republicans have never had to
govern before.
They have been -- most of them
have been in
the minority.
They have never been with a
Republican president.
They have never had control of
government.
So, this is a brand-new
experience for them.
All the old fights that, by the
way, to Tam's
point, have been brewing for
years and years
and years -- this isn't Donald
Trump's fault.
The divisions between
Republicans on a whole
host of issues have been there,
I would argue,
going all the way back to the
Bush administration
on a lot of these issues.
They didn't just get cleared
away because
there is a new president.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: On health
care, Tam, rumblings
that there might be a piece of
legislation.
Are they going to be able to
solve these divisions
that they -- that the GOP
discovered last
time they tried to do this?
TAMARA KEITH: So, these
rumblings have been
rumbling basically every week
since the health
care bill in the House failed to
get a vote.
They pulled it from the floor
without a vote
because it was going to fail.
So, these rumblings happen every
single week.
They are happening again.
But until we see House leaders
put a bill
on the floor, the votes aren't
there.
When they have the votes, they
will put it
up for a vote.
But in the meantime, we will
continue to talk
about it.
Today, in a Bloomberg interview,
the president
said, I want this to be good for
sick people.
It's not in its final form right
now.
It will be every bit as good on
preexisting
conditions as Obamacare.
What he is describing is not the
thing that
they are potentially voting on
right now,
because advocates from various
nonpartisan
groups will say that it isn't as
good on preexisting
conditions.
So, does that mean that this is
reopened?
I guess we will find out.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Right.
AMY WALTER: And that's a very
difficult place
if you are a Republican right
now.
Your choice is, we don't get
anything done,
and then the base is furious at
you, because
you have been telling
Republicans, you have
been telling the whole country,
vote for us,
we going to repeal Obamacare.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For seven
years.
AMY WALTER: For seven years.
Don't do it, that's a problem.
Or you do pass something that is
not particularly
popular, where you lose the
support of your
moderate wing of your party, the
folks who,
by the way, are in the most
vulnerable districts,
most likely to lose in a midterm
election.
They are voting no because they
see it as
being unpopular, whether on
preexisting conditions
or others.
That is a very uncomfortable
spot to be.
Don't pass anything, people are
angry with
you.
Pass something that even a lot
of your supporters
don't like, and then you have to
defend it
coming up in the midterm
election.
This is a very, very -- you
know, it's like
being in a vice.
Not comfortable.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's talk
about this weekend.
Let's just say, if I had been
Rip Van Winkle,
and I woke up, say, Sunday
morning and looked
at the newspaper, and saw
President Trump
had had that rally and seen
clips from that
rally, I would think we were
still in the
middle of a campaign.
TAMARA KEITH: It was absolutely
a campaign
rally.
It was put on by his campaign.
It included some of the greatest
hits from
his campaign, including the
snake poem, song
thing that was hugely popular
among his supporters
that it is supposed to be a
cautionary tale
about immigrants coming...
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: There is about
-- Trump
is saying, if you let the snake
into your
house, and that snake bites you,
who is to
blame?
You are to blame.
TAMARA KEITH: Exactly.
And it's been something -- it's
the kind of
thing where he would say, I
might talk about
the snake at his rallies, and
people would
go, rah!
And this that is exactly what
happened at
this rally.
He also did the CNN is terrible,
the failing
New York Times, the whole thing,
a lot of
bashing of the media, which is
kind of fascinating,
because it comes in a week where
he has done
so many interviews with
basically every news
outlet in America.
If the media is the opposition
party or whatever
he wants to call it, why does he
keep talking
to us?
(LAUGHTER)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Right.
AMY WALTER: And his campaign, by
the way -- on
top of all of this, not only did
he have a
campaign-style rally as a
president, but his
campaign is literally running
ads right now
that look like...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Right.
How unusual is that?
AMY WALTER: It's not that
unusual for a president
out of the time when he is
running for president
trying to sow some good
feelings.
And, definitely, he needs to
boost his approval
rating.
But it is unusual that the
campaign itself
is already spending money trying
to talk about
a president who is 100 days into
his presidency.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Right.
AMY WALTER: The other thing you
noticed was,
it wasn't just the media.
Of course, they had their own
special event
where they were defending
themselves against
attacks from Donald...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
correspondents dinner.
AMY WALTER: Right, which, again,
felt like
we were back in 2016.
And then there were rallies
around the country,
especially here in Washington,
D.C., on climate
change, where you had the
so-called resistance
shouting about how much they
dislike the president
and want to see him go.
So, it feels like we are never
going to break
out of this...
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That's
probably why he wanted
to get out of town.
Amy Walter, Tamara Keith, thank
you both so
much.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Next: the
rapid rise of
one of the world's biggest
social media networks,
Instagram.
It's building up steam, with 700
million people
now using it each month, and it
just took
four months to pick up its
latest 100 million
new accounts.
But along the way, the company
has faced concerns
over how it can be used, and
even some criticism
for the way it essentially
copied ideas from
its rival, Snapchat.
Judy Woodruff recently got an
inside look
during her trip to Silicon
Valley.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One of the first
things that
greets you inside Instagram is,
no surprise,
a place to take pictures.
The free photo-sharing mobile
app was born
in 2010 with its first post, a
foot in a flip-flop
alongside a stray dog.
Turns out it was taken in Mexico
by co-founder
Kevin Systrom.
KEVIN SYSTROM, Co-Founder,
Instagram: It's
a mixture of teams.
So, we have got design teams, we
have got
partnership teams, we have got a
community
team, and then a bunch of
engineers.
We don't really have an
organization.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Systrom showed us
around Instagram's
new offices in Menlo Park,
California, designed
to accommodate an ever-expanding
staff.
You moved here six months ago;
is that right?
KEVIN SYSTROM: Yes, six months
ago, we moved
from the original campus.
And we designed this entire
experience inside
here to be cleaner, and a little
bit more
Instagrammy.
So we have got the hip wood
walls, and the
polished concrete floors.
It's very start-uppy, but it's
in an Instagram
way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A start-up no
longer, Instagram
was acquired by Facebook in 2012
for a cool
billion dollars.
Then, the company had 13
employees.
Now it has more than 600 to keep
up with a
rapidly growing user base, 700
million monthly
active users and counting, 80
percent of them
outside the United States.
How do you explain the
phenomenal, rapid growth
of this?
KEVIN SYSTROM: On Instagram,
very early on,
you would post an image, and
anyone anywhere
in the world could see that
image, and understand
what you were trying to say
without speaking
your language.
So, we like to say that
Instagram was one
of the first truly international
networks
in the world.
And I think that's what's
allowed it to scale
to the hundreds of millions of
people that
use it every day today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It still is a
pretty extraordinary
growth rate, isn't it?
KEVIN SYSTROM: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I mean, even with
that rational
explanation, it's hard for
people to understand
how it happened.
KEVIN SYSTROM: Yes.
You know, back in the day, if
you started
a company, you would have to
rent a warehouse,
you would have to hire a bunch
of employees.
But, you know, with very, very
few people
sitting here in this building
today, we're
able to scale it to hundreds of
millions of
people around the world, because
of the innovations
that we are built up upon.
And that's the cool thing about
running a
company today, is how many
people you can
touch how quickly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For a company
founded on images,
the walls here are adorned with
some of the
best, culled from Instagram
users around the
world.
KEVIN SYSTROM: Well, not to
invoke the common
saying, but a picture is worth
1,000 words.
And that's kind of like the
phrase that this
company is built on.
It's just something that's
unlike traditional
texts and traditional media.
And I think it allows you to see
a different
side of people, maybe a more raw
and human
emotional side of people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Celebrities have
embraced the
app.
Singer Selena Gomez has the most
followers,
more than 118 million.
And Beyonce has the distinction
of having
the most-liked image in the
history of Instagram,
10.9 million and climbing, for
this photo
that announced she's pregnant
with twins.
For teens, the quest for more
and more likes
and followers, plus the pressure
for perfection
as portrayed by some
mega-popular users, is
raising concerns among parents.
Not only body image, but also
bullying have
become issues for some younger
users.
And Instagram is grappling with
how to foster
a safe community, free from
abusive behavior.
So, when you started Instagram
seven years
ago in 2010, did you have any
idea you were
going to be spending time, a lot
of time now,
thinking about protecting the
people who use
it?
KEVIN SYSTROM: No, I would say,
every day
at Instagram is not only the
most complicated
day of my career, but also the
most interesting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you
prepare yourself
for this kind of responsibility?
I mean, what are you, 32 years
old?
KEVIN SYSTROM: Thirty-three.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thirty-three.
KEVIN SYSTROM: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All of 33.
That's a lot of responsibility,
isn't it?
KEVIN SYSTROM: Yes.
And there are a lot of parents
here at Instagram
who think deeply about a world
in which their
children are going to grow up
online, and
what kind of product they want
to create,
and what kind of legacy they
want to leave.
I don't yet have kids, but in a
world where
I do have kids, I want to make
sure that the
world they grow up in is one
that is safe
online, and that Instagram led
the way to
create that world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But with 95
million uploads
a day, monitoring is a tall
order.
New guidelines are aimed at
blurring out questionable
material before the user even
sees it, with
a screen labeled "sensitive
content."
There's also a reporting
function for content
about self-harm or suicide.
Systrom says the company's work
is far from
over.
KEVIN SYSTROM: This is a
constant process.
This is about making sure that
we continue
to evolve the way we attack the
problem.
This isn't about getting to an
eventual future
where it is absolutely gone.
That being said, it doesn't mean
that we can't
make real progress on it, and,
more importantly,
show the leadership that I think
our company
can and should, so that other
tech companies
do as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The pressure in
Silicon Valley
to lead, innovate and stay
relevant is intense.
And Instagram has come under
criticism for
its outright and successful
copying of rival
Snapchat's video stories feature
Instagram Stories, you have
openly said was
copied, in effect, from
Snapchat.
Is that what happened?
KEVIN SYSTROM: The way things
work in Silicon
Valley is that companies will
think up ideas,
and, if they're good, they will
stick.
And, often, they spread to other
companies.
And if we can learn from other
companies that
do it really well, we're going
to continue
to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Advertising on
the app is also
growing and reaping rewards.
There are one million active
advertisers,
a 400 percent increase from last
year.
How have you changed your
advertising philosophy
over time?
KEVIN SYSTROM: Yes, there were
two major changes,
I think, to our advertising
philosophy over
time.
The first was just to have
advertising at
all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Period.
KEVIN SYSTROM: That was a big
one.
But we always knew we were going
to be a business,
and that's how we were going to
be a business,
was advertising.
The second shift was going from
a world where
we had a small number of
advertisers doing
very refined ads to now, where
we have many,
many millions of advertisers on
Facebook able
to buy Instagram ads.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We ended where we
began, in
front of Instagram's wall of
photo-ops, where
Systrom shares credit for how
far the company
has come.
KEVIN SYSTROM: It was the right
time, it was
the right idea, and then it was
the right
team.
You need a lot of things to go
well to get
to this point.
So I feel very lucky.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The business
practices and
decisions made by Instagram and,
much more
broadly, by Facebook are
increasingly under
scrutiny.
We will have a closer look at
that issue later
this week.
Now to our "NewsHour" Shares,
something that
caught our eye that may be of
interest to
you, too.
Herbert Hoover may be best
remembered as a
rigid Republican whose
presidency saw the
start of the Great Depression.
But newly discovered reels of
film reveal
a softer, more human side of the
man and his
family.
The "NewsHour"'s Julia Griffin
explains.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Herbert Clark
Hoover, engineer,
humanitarian, and 31st president
of the United
States, he's forever imprinted
in our history
books in Depression-era black
and white -- or
maybe not.
Seven recently unveiled home
movies now place
his White House in a colorful
new light.
LYNN SMITH, Herbert Hoover
Presidential Library-Museum:
You get used to seeing the '20
and '30s in
black and white only, so, to see
them in color
is kind of like going through a
time machine.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Lynn Smith is the
audio-visual
archivist at Herbert Hoover
Presidential Library-Museum.
In 2014, she discovered the
films weren't
black and white, but rather
Kodacolor, a short-lived
product that requires a special
projection
lens to reveal colored hues.
LYNN SMITH: It's nice to have
old color film,
but White House color films,
there's only
one first, and I think we may
have it.
JULIA GRIFFIN: The camera
belonged to Hoover's
wife, Lou, an early home movie
technophile.
Now restored, the films show
unguarded moments
of first family life, a 1929
fishing trip,
in which then president-elect
Hoover catches
a barracuda, or a game of fetch
on the White
House lawn between first lady
Lou and first
dogs Pat and Weejie.
One even features Alonzo Fields,
who served
20 years as the chief White
House butler.
Here, he stands in the 1930 Rose
Garden.
But the longest clip offers a
rare glimpse
of the president's favorite
physical activity:
a morning match of catch the
press dubbed
Hoover Ball.
LYNN SMITH: It was a 6-pound
leather ball
that was filled with stuffing,
and they'd
have Cabinet members, some
members of the
Supreme Court out every morning,
six days
a week.
And they would toss and catch
thing.
They would score it similar to
volleyball
or something like that.
JULIA GRIFFIN: The videos show
the Hoover
family's lighter side.
LYNN SMITH: He wasn't just the
dour, stone-faced
man that was president during
the Depression.
He did have a heart and soul.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Smith is busy
scouring the
museum's archives for more shots
like this.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Julia Griffin.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Tune in later
this evening.
"Independent Lens" presents a
film that looks
at the secret U.S. drone program
through the
eyes of three veterans who are
now whistle-blowers.
"National Bird" explores the
difficult circumstances
faced by military personnel in
that program.
It airs tonight on most PBS
stationso~.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm William Brangham.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.